# Mozart Input system

This document describes how the input system works inside Mozart.

## Devices

Magenta provides access to devices through the file system under
/dev/class/input. Those are HID devices and there are associated ioctls to
retrieve the description report and simple reads on those devices will return
the event reports.

## HID Reports to Input Events.

When launching an application through the bootstrap process, src/root_presenter
is launched as a singleton to create the root of the presentation. When
starting, root_presenter starts src/input_reader which will monitor the
/dev/class/input directory for new devices and discover existing devices if they
are already present.

Any time a device is detected (or discovered the first time) InputReader reads
the HID description report and converts it into a DeviceDescriptor.

That device is then registered through the InputDeviceRegistry which is
implemented by the root presenter App class. App then notifies any existing
Presentation of the new device. It also creates a channel for that device in
the form of an InputDevice which InputReader can keep a reference to to forward
events. Presentation creates a DeviceState (found under lib/input) which will
be used later in the process.

During the initialization of the device, InputReader will add the handle
corresponding to that device to the list of handles to monitor for activity in
its message loop. Whenever activity is detected, it reads the packet and the
InputInterpreter associated to this device, will convert the report into an
InputReport.

The InputReport is forwarded through the InputDevice channel created during the
registration process to the root presenter App which dispatches it to the
different Presentations.

The DeviceState held by a presentation will convert the InputReport into an
InputEvent.

## The life of an InputEvent.

Once an InputEvent has been generated by a DeviceState, it's forwarded to
src/input_manager, a ViewAssociate dedicated to process input events which
implements the InputDispatcher service.

There is one InputDispatcherImpl per view tree. The view tree is owned by
Presentation. So the InputEvent is forwarded to each one of them.

An InputDispatcherImpl will query the ViewInspector service to retrieve the
input focus chain. It will then dispatch those events through the chain. It
starts at the deepest view in that chain and propagates the event until the
View says it has handled the event though the
InputConnection/InputListener/OnEvent method.

## Input Focus.

When the InputEvent is a touch or mouse down event, InputDispatcherImpl, using
the ViewInspector, runs the HitTest on the scene graph. The result contains a
tree of nodes that were hit.

InputDispatcherImpl uses ViewInspector to convert this list of nodes into Views,
at which point it requests in parallel the different views whether they are hit
or not and which of their children should be considered for the hit. This is
done through the InputConnection/ViewHitTester interface.

Once all views have responded, InputDispatcherImpl reconciles the results
walking down the tree from the top and using the answer to which subviews should
participate to build a tree of interested parties. For each leaf it will then
create focus chain, which is the branch that leads from that leaf to the root.

For now InputDispatcherImpl picks one of the chain but this will be changed in
the future. It then tells the ViewInspector which chain is now in focus.
